<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXXVI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-36" epub:type="chapter">
			
<h2><a id="XXXVI" />XXXVI</h2>
<h3>AN HOUR OF STARTLING EXPERIENCES</h3>
<p>
  Not till I was safely back in the Knollys grounds, not, indeed, till I had put
  one or two large and healthy shrubs between me and a certain pair of very
  prying eyes, did I bring the dove out from under my cape and examine the poor
  bird for any sign which might be of help to me in the search to which I was
  newly committed.
</p>
<p>
  But I found nothing, and was obliged to resort to my old plan of reasoning to
  make anything out of the situation in which I thus so unexpectedly found
  myself. The dove had brought the ring into old Mother Jane's hands, but whence
  and through whose agency? This was as much a secret as before, but the longer
  I contemplated it, the more I realized that it need not remain a secret long;
  that we had simply to watch the other doves, note where they lighted, and in
  whose barn-doors they were welcome, for us to draw inferences that might lead
  to revelations before the day was out. If Deacon Spear—But Deacon Spear's
  house had been examined as well as that of every other resident in the lane.
  This I knew, but it had not been examined by me, and unwilling as I was to
  challenge the accuracy or thoroughness of a search led on by such a man as Mr.
  Gryce, I could not but feel that, with such a hint as I had received from the
  episode in the hut, it would be a great relief to my mind to submit these same
  premises to my own somewhat penetrating survey, no man in my judgment having
  the same quickness of eyesight in matters domestic as a woman trained to know
  every inch of a house and to measure by a hair's-breadth every fall of drapery
  within it.
</p>
<p>
  But how in the name of goodness was I to obtain an opportunity for this
  survey. Had we not one and all been bidden to confine our attention to what
  was going on in Mother Jane's cottage, and would it not be treason to Lucetta
  to run the least risk of awakening apprehension in any possibly guilty mind at
  the other end of the road? Yes, but for all that I could not keep still if
  fate, or my own ingenuity, offered me the least chance of pursuing the clue I
  had wrung from our imbecile neighbor at the risk of my life. It was not in my
  nature to do so, any more than it was in my nature to yield up my present
  advantage to Mr. Gryce without making a personal effort to utilize it. I
  forgot that I failed in this once before in my career, or rather I recalled
  this failure, perhaps, and felt the great need of retrieving myself.
</p>
<p>
  When, therefore, in my slow stroll towards the house I encountered William in
  the shrubbery, I could not forbear accosting him with a question or two.
</p>
<p>
  "William," I remarked, gently rubbing the side of my nose with an irresolute
  forefinger and looking at him from under my lids, "that was a scurvy trick you
  played Deacon Spear yesterday."
</p>
<p>He stood amazed, then burst into one of his loud laughs.</p>
<p>
  "You think so?" he cried. "Well, I don't. He only got what he deserved, the
  hard, sanctimonious sneak!"
</p>
<p>
  "Do you say that," I inquired, with some spirit, "because you dislike the man,
  or because you really believe him to be worthy of hatred?"
</p>
<p>William's amusement at this argued little for my hopes.</p>
<p>
  "<i>We</i> are very much interested in the Deacon," he suggested, with a leer;
  which insolence I allowed to pass unnoticed, because it best suited my plan.
</p>
<p>
  "You have not answered my question," I remarked, with a forced air of anxiety.
</p>
<p>
  "Oh, no," he cried, "so I haven't"; and he tried to look serious too. "Well,
  well, to be just, I have nothing really against the man but his mean ways.
  Still, if I were going to risk my life on a hazard as to who is the evil
  spirit of this lane, I should say Spear and done with it, he has such cursed
  small eyes."
</p>
<p>
  "<i>I</i> don't think his eyes are too small," I returned loftily. Then with a
  sudden change of manner, I suggested anxiously: "And my opinion is shared by
  your sisters. They evidently think very well of him."
</p>
<p>
  "Oh!" he sneered; "girls are no judges. They don't know a good man when they
  see him, and they don't know a bad. You mustn't go by what they say."
</p>
<p>
  I had it on the tip of my tongue to ask if he did not think Lucetta
  sufficiently understood herself to be trusted in what she contemplated doing
  that night. But this was neither in accordance with my plan, nor did it seem
  quite loyal to Lucetta, who, so far as I knew, had not communicated her
  intentions to this booby brother. I therefore changed this question into a
  repetition of my first remark:
</p>
<p>
  "Well, I still think the trick you played Deacon Spear yesterday a poor one;
  and I advise you, as a gentleman, to go and ask his pardon."
</p>
<p>This was such a preposterous proposition, he could not hold his peace.</p>
<p>
  "<i>I ask his pardon!</i>" he snorted. "Well, Saracen, did you ever hear the
  like of that! <i>I</i> ask Deacon Spear's pardon for obliging him to be
  treated with as great attention as I had been myself."
</p>
<p>
  "If you do not," I went on, unmoved, "I shall go and do it myself. I think
  that is what my friendship for you warrants. I am determined that while I am a
  visitor in your house no one shall be able to pick a flaw in your conduct."
</p>
<p>
  He stared (as he might well do), tried to read my face, then my intentions,
  and failing to do both, which was not strange, broke into noisy mirth.
</p>
<p>
  "Oh, ho!" he laughed. "So that is your game, is it! Well, I never! Saracen,
  Miss Butterworth wants to reform me; wants to make one of her sleek city chaps
  out of William Knollys. She'll have hard work of it, won't she? But then we're
  beginning to like her well enough to let her try. Miss Butterworth, I'll go
  with you to Deacon Spear. I haven't had so much chance for fun in a
  twelve-month."
</p>
<p>
  I had not expected such success, and was duly thankful. But I made no
  reference to it aloud. On the contrary, I took his complaisance as a matter of
  course, and, hiding all token of triumph, suggested quietly that we should
  make as little ado as possible over our errand, seeing that Mr. Gryce was
  something of a meddler and <i>might</i> take it into his head to interfere.
  Which suggestion had all the effect I anticipated, for at the double prospect
  of amusing himself at the Deacon's expense, and of outwitting the man whose
  business it was to outwit us, he became not only willing but eager to
  undertake the adventure offered him. So with the understanding that I was to
  be ready to drive into town as soon as he could hitch up the horse, we parted
  on the most amicable terms, he proceeding towards the stable and I towards the
  house, where I hoped to learn something new about Lucetta.
</p>
<p>
  But Loreen, from whom alone I could hope to glean any information, was shut in
  her room, and did not come out, though I called her more than once, which, if
  it left my curiosity unsatisfied, at least allowed me to quit the house
  without awakening hers.
</p>
<p>
  William was waiting for me at the gate when I descended. He was in the best of
  humors, and helped me into the buggy he had resurrected from some corner of
  the old stable, with a grimace of suppressed mirth which argued well for the
  peace of our proposed drive. The horse's head was turned away from the quarter
  we were bound for, but as we were ostensibly on our way to the village, this
  showed but common prudence on William's part, and, as such, met with my entire
  approbation.
</p>
<p>
  Mr. Gryce and his men were hard at work when we passed them. Knowing the
  detective so well, and rating at its full value his undoubted talent for
  reading the motives of those about him, I made no attempt at cajolery in the
  explanation I proffered of our sudden departure, but merely said, in my old,
  peremptory way, that I found waiting at the gate so tedious that I had
  accepted William's invitation to drive into town. Which, while it astonished
  the old gentleman, did not really arouse his suspicions, as a more
  conciliatory manner and speech might have done. This disposed of, we drove
  rapidly away.
</p>
<p>
  William's sense of humor once aroused was not easily allayed. He seemed so
  pleased with his errand that he could talk of nothing else, and turned the
  subject over and over in his clumsy way, till I began to wonder if he had seen
  through the object of our proposed visit and was making <i>me</i> the butt of
  his none too brilliant wit.
</p>
<p>
  But no, he was really amused at the part he was called upon to play, and, once
  convinced of this, I let his humor run on without check till we had re-entered
  Lost Man's Lane from the other end and were in sight of the low sloping roof
  of Deacon Spear's old-fashioned farmhouse.
</p>
<p>Then I thought it time to speak.</p>
<p>
  "William," said I, "Deacon Spear is too good a man, and, as I take it, is in
  possession of too great worldly advantages for you to be at enmity with him.
  Remember that he is a neighbor, and that you are a landed proprietor in this
  lane."
</p>
<p>
  "Good for you!" was the elegant reply with which this young boor honored me.
  "I didn't think you had such an eye for the main chance."
</p>
<p>
  "Deacon Spear is rich, is he not?" I pursued, with an ulterior motive he was
  far from suspecting.
</p>
<p>
  "Rich? Why, I don't know; that depends upon what you city ladies call rich;
  <i>I</i> shouldn't call him so, but then, as you say, I am a landed proprietor
  myself."
</p>
<p>
  His laugh was boisterously loud, and as we were then nearly in front of the
  Deacon's house, it rang in through the open windows, causing such surprise,
  that more than one head bobbed up from within to see who dared to laugh like
  that in Lost Man's Lane. While I noted these heads and various other small
  matters about the house and place, William tied up the horse and held out his
  hand for me to descend.
</p>
<p>
  "I begin to suspect," he whispered as he helped me out, "why you are so
  anxious to have me on good terms with the Deacon." At which insinuation I
  attempted to smile, but only succeeded in forcing a grim twitch or two to my
  lips, for at that moment and before I could take one step towards the house, a
  couple of pigeons rose up from behind the house and flew away in a bee-line
  for Mother Jane's cottage.
</p>
<p>
  "Ha!" thought I; "my instinct has not failed me. Behold the link between this
  house and the hut in which those tokens of crime were found," and was for the
  moment so overwhelmed by this confirmation of my secret suspicions, that I
  quite forgot to advance, and stood stupidly staring after these birds now
  rapidly disappearing in the distance.
</p>
<p>William's voice aroused me.</p>
<p>
  "Come!" he cried. "Don't be bashful. I don't think much of Deacon Spear
  myself, but if <i>you</i> do—Why, what's the matter now?" he asked, with a
  startled look at me. I had clutched him by the arm.
</p>
<p>
  "Nothing," I protested, "only—you see that window over there? The one in the
  gable of the barn, I mean. I thought I saw a hand thrust out,—a white hand
  that dropped crumbs. Have they a child on this place?"
</p>
<p>
  "No," replied William, in an odd voice and with an odd look toward the window
  I have mentioned. "Did you really see a hand there?"
</p>
<p>
  "I most certainly did," I answered, with an air of indifference I was far from
  feeling. "Some one is up in the hay-loft; perhaps it is Deacon Spear himself.
  If so, he will have to come down, for now that we are here, I am determined
  you shall do your duty."
</p>
<p>
  "Deacon Spear can't climb that hay-loft," was the perplexed answer I received
  in a hardly intelligible mutter. "I've been there, and I know; only a boy or a
  very agile young man could crawl along the beams that lead to that window. It
  is the one hiding-place in this part of the lane; and when I said yesterday
  that if I were the police and had the same search to make which they have, I
  knew where I would look, I meant that same little platform up behind the hay,
  whose only outlook is yonder window. But I forgot that <i>you</i> have no
  suspicions of our good Deacon; that <i>you</i> are here on quite a different
  errand than to search for Silly Rufus. So come along and——"
</p>
<p>
  But I resisted his impelling hand. He was so much in earnest and so evidently
  under the excitement of what appeared to him a great discovery, that he seemed
  quite another man. This made my own suspicions less hazardous, and also added
  to the situation fresh difficulties which could only be met by an appearance
  on my part of perfect ingenuousness.
</p>
<p>
  Turning back to the buggy as if I had forgotten something, and thus accounting
  to any one who might be watching us, for the delay we showed in entering the
  house, I said to William: "You have reasons for thinking this man a villain,
  or you wouldn't be so ready to suspect him. Now what if I should tell you that
  I agree with you, and that this is why I have dragged you here this fine
  morning?"
</p>
<p>
  "I should say you were a deuced smart woman," was his ready answer. "But what
  can you do here?"
</p>
<p>
  "What have we already done?" I asked. "Discovered that they have some one in
  hiding in what you call an inaccessible place in the barn. But didn't the
  police examine the whole place yesterday? They certainly told me they had
  searched the premises thoroughly."
</p>
<p>
  "Yes," he repeated, with great disdain, "they said and they said; but they
  didn't climb up to the one hiding-place in sight. That old fellow Gryce
  declared it wasn't worth their while; that only birds could reach that
  loophole."
</p>
<p>
  "Oh," I returned, somewhat taken aback; "you called his attention to it,
  then?"
</p>
<p>To which William answered with a vigorous nod and the grumbling words:</p>
<p>
  "I don't believe in the police. I think they're often in league with the very
  rogues they——"
</p>
<p>
  But here the necessity of approaching the house became too apparent for
  further delay. Deacon Spear had shown himself at the front door, and the sight
  of his astonished face twisted into a grimace of doubtful welcome drove every
  other thought away than how we were to acquit ourselves in the coming
  interview. Seeing that William was more or less nonplussed by the situation, I
  caught him by the arm, and whispering, "Let us keep to our first programme,"
  led him up the walk with much the air of a triumphant captain bringing in a
  recalcitrant prisoner.
</p>
<p>
  My introduction under these circumstances can be imagined by those who have
  followed William's awkward ways. But the Deacon, who was probably the most
  surprised, if not the most disconcerted member of the group, possessed a
  natural fund of conceit and self-complacency that prevented any outward
  manifestation of his feelings, though I could not help detecting a carefully
  suppressed antagonism in his eye when he allowed it to fall upon William,
  which warned me to exercise my full arts in the manipulation of the matter
  before me. I accordingly spoke first and with all the prim courtesy such a man
  might naturally expect from an intruder of my sex and appearance.
</p>
<p>
  "Deacon Spear," said I, as soon as we were seated in his stiff old-fashioned
  parlor, "you are astonished to see us here, no doubt, especially after the
  display of animosity shown towards you yesterday by this graceless young
  friend of mine. But it is on account of this unfortunate occurrence that we
  are here. After a little reflection and a few hints, I may add, from one who
  has seen more of life than himself, William felt that he had cause to be
  ashamed of himself for his show of sport in yesterday's proceedings, and
  accordingly he has come in my company to tender his apologies and entreat your
  forbearance. Am I not right, William?"
</p>
<p>
  The fellow is a clown under all and every circumstance, and serious as our
  real purpose was, and dreadful as was the suspicion he professed to cherish
  against the suave and seemingly respectable member of the community we were
  addressing, he could not help laughing, as he blunderingly replied:
</p>
<p>
  "That you are, Miss Butterworth! She's always right, Deacon. I did act like a
  fool yesterday." And seeming to think that, with this one sentence he had
  played his part out to perfection, he jumped up and strolled out of the house,
  almost pushing down as he did so the two daughters of the house, who had crept
  into the hall from the sitting-room to listen.
</p>
<p>
  "Well, well!" exclaimed the Deacon, "you have done wonders, Miss Butterworth,
  to bring him to even so small an acknowledgment as that! He's a vicious one,
  is William Knollys, and if <i>I</i> were not such a lover of peace and
  concord, he should not long be the only aggressive one. But <i>I</i> have no
  taste for strife, and so you may both regard his apology as accepted. But why
  do you rise, madam? Sit down, I pray, and let me do the honors. Martha!
  Jemima!"
</p>
<p>
  But I would not allow him to summon his daughters. The man inspired me with
  too much dislike, if not fear; besides, I was anxious about William. What was
  he doing, and of what blunder might he not be guilty without my judicious
  guidance?
</p>
<p>
  "I am obliged to you," I returned; "but I cannot wait to meet your daughters
  now. Another time, Deacon. There is important business going on at the other
  end of the lane, and William's presence there may be required."
</p>
<p>
  "Ah," he observed, following me to the door, "they are digging up Mother
  Jane's garden."
</p>
<p>I nodded, restraining myself with difficulty.</p>
<p>
  "Fool's work!" he muttered. Then with a curious look which made me
  instinctively draw back, he added, "These things must inconvenience you,
  madam. I wish you had made your visit to the lane in happier times."
</p>
<p>
  There was a smirk on his face which made him positively repellent. I could
  scarcely bow my acknowledgments, his look and attitude made the interview so
  obnoxious. Looking about for William, I stepped down from the stoop. The
  Deacon followed me.
</p>
<p>"Where is William?" I asked.</p>
<p>
  The Deacon ran his eye over the place, and suddenly frowned with ill-concealed
  vexation.
</p>
<p>"The scapegrace!" he murmured. "What business has he in my barn?"</p>
<p>
  I immediately forced a smile which, in days long past (I've almost forgotten
  them now), used to do some execution.
</p>
<p>
  "Oh, he's a boy!" I exclaimed. "Do not mind his pranks, I pray. What a
  comfortable place you have here!"
</p>
<p>
  Instantly a change passed over the Deacon, and he turned to me with an air of
  great interest, broken now and then by an uneasy glance behind him at the
  barn.
</p>
<p>
  "I am glad you like the place," he insinuated, keeping close at my side as I
  stepped somewhat briskly down the walk. "It is a nice place, worthy of the
  commendation of so competent a judge as yourself." (It was a barren,
  hard-worked farm, without one attractive feature.) "I have lived on it now
  forty years, thirty-two of them with my beloved wife Caroline, and two—" Here
  he stopped and wiped a tear from the dryest eye I ever saw. "Miss Butterworth,
  I am a widower."
</p>
<p>
  I hastened my steps. I here duly and with the strictest regard for the truth
  aver, that I decidedly hastened my steps at this very unnecessary
  announcement. But he, with another covert glance behind him towards the barn,
  from which, to my surprise and increasing anxiety, William had not yet
  emerged, kept well up to me, and only paused when I paused at the side of the
  road near the buggy.
</p>
<p>
  "Miss Butterworth," he began, undeterred by the air of dignity I assumed, "I
  have been thinking that your visit here is a rebuke to my unneighborliness.
  But the business which has occupied the lane these last few days has put us
  all into such a state of unpleasantness that it was useless to attempt
  sociability."
</p>
<p>
  His voice was so smooth, his eyes so small and twinkling, that if I could have
  thought of anything except William's possible discoveries in the barn, I
  should have taken delight in measuring my wits against his egotism.
</p>
<p>
  But as it was, I said nothing, possibly because I only half heard what he was
  saying.
</p>
<p>
  "I am no lady's man,"—these were the next words I heard,—"but then I judge
  you're not anxious for flattery, but prefer the square thing uttered by a
  square man without delay or circumlocution. Madam, I am fifty-three, and I
  have been a widower two years. I am not fitted for a solitary life, and I am
  fitted for the companionship of an affectionate wife who will keep my hearth
  clean and my affections in good working order. Will you be that wife? You see
  my home,"—here his eye stole behind him with that uneasy look towards the barn
  which William's presence in it certainly warranted,—"a home which I can offer
  you unencumbered, if you——"
</p>
<p>
  "Desire to live in Lost Man's Lane," I put in, subduing both my surprise and
  my disgust at this preposterous proposal, in order to throw all the sarcasm of
  which I was capable into this single sentence.
</p>
<p>
  "Oh!" he exclaimed, "you don't like the neighborhood. Well, we could go
  elsewhere. I am not set against the city myself——"
</p>
<p>
  Astounded at his presumption, regarding him as a possible criminal, who was
  endeavoring to beguile me for purposes of his own, I could no longer repress
  either my indignation or the wrath with which such impromptu addresses
  naturally inspired me. Cutting him short with a gesture which made him open
  his small eyes, I exclaimed in continuation of his remark:
</p>
<p>
  "Nor, as I take it, are you set against the comfortable little income somebody
  has told you I possessed. I see your disinterestedness, Deacon, but I should
  be sorry to profit by it. Why, man, I never spoke to you before in my life,
  and do you think——"
</p>
<p>
  "Oh!" he suavely insinuated, with a suppressed chuckle which even his
  increasing uneasiness as to William could not altogether repress, "I see you
  are <i>not</i> above the flattery that pleases other women. Well, madam, I
  know a tremendous fine woman when I see her, and from the moment I saw you
  riding by the other day, I made up my mind I would have you for the second
  Mrs. Spear, if persistence and a proper advocacy of my cause could accomplish
  it. Madam, I was going to visit you with this proposal to-night, but seeing
  you here, the temptation was too great for my discretion, and so I have
  addressed you on the spot. But you need not answer me at once. I don't need to
  know any more about <i>you</i> than what I can take in with my two eyes, but
  if you would like a little more acquaintance with <i>me</i>, why I can wait a
  couple of weeks till we've rubbed the edges off our strangeness, when——"
</p>
<p>
  "When you think I will be so charmed with Deacon Spear that I will be ready to
  settle down with him in Lost Man's Lane, or if that will not do, carry him off
  to Gramercy Park, where he will be the admiration of all New York and Brooklyn
  to boot. Why, man, if I was so easily satisfied as that, I would not be in a
  position to-day for you to honor me with this proposal. I am not easy to suit,
  so I advise you to turn your attention to some one much more anxious to be
  married than I am. But"—and here I allowed some of my real feelings to
  appear—"if you value your own reputation or the happiness of the lady you
  propose to inveigle into an union with you, do not venture too far in the
  matrimonial way till the mystery is dispelled which shrouds Lost Man's Lane in
  horror. If you were an honest man you would ask no one to share your fortunes
  whilst the least doubt rests upon your reputation."
</p>
<p>
  "<i>My</i> reputation?" He had started very visibly at these words. "Madam, be
  careful. I admire you, but——"
</p>
<p>
  "No offence," said I. "For a stranger I have been, perhaps, unduly frank. I
  only mean that any one who lives in this lane must feel himself more or less
  enveloped by the shadow which rests upon it. When that is lifted, each and
  every one of you will feel himself a man again. From indications to be seen in
  the lane to-day, that time may not be far distant. Mother Jane is a likely
  source for the mysteries that agitate us. She knows just enough to have no
  proper idea of the value of a human life."
</p>
<p>
  The Deacon's retort was instantaneous. "Madam," said he, with a snap of his
  fingers, "I have not that much interest in what is going on down there. If men
  have been killed in this lane (which I do not believe), old Mother Jane has
  had no hand in it. My opinion is—and you may value it or not, just as you
  please—that what the people hereabout call crimes are so many coincidences,
  which some day or other will receive their due explanation. Every one who has
  disappeared in this vicinity has disappeared naturally. No one has been
  killed. That is my theory, and you will find it correct. On this point I have
  expended more than a little thought."
</p>
<p>
  I was irate. I was also dumfounded at his audacity. Did he think I was the
  woman to be deceived by any such balderdash as that? But I shut my lips
  tightly lest I should say something, and he, not finding this agreeable, being
  no conversationalist himself, drew himself up with a pompously expressed hope
  that he would see me again after his reputation was cleared, when his
  attention as well as my own was diverted by seeing William's slouching figure
  appear in the barn door and make slowly towards us.
</p>
<p>
  Instantly the Deacon forgot me in his interest in William's approach, which
  was so slow as to be tantalizing to us both.
</p>
<p>When he was within speaking distance, Deacon Spear started towards him.</p>
<p>
  "Well!" he cried; "one would think you had gone back a dozen or so years and
  were again robbing your neighbor's hen-roosts. Been in the hay, eh?" he added,
  leaning forward and plucking a wisp or two from my companion's clothes. "Well,
  what did you find there?"
</p>
<p>
  In trembling fear for what the lout might answer, I put my hand on the buggy
  rail and struggled anxiously to my seat. William stepped forward and loosened
  the horse before speaking. Then with a leer he dived into his pocket, and
  remarking slowly, "I found <i>this</i>," brought to light a small riding-whip
  which we both recognized as one he often carried. "I flung it up in the hay
  yesterday in one of my fits of laughing, so just thought I would bring it down
  to-day. You know it isn't the first time I've climbed about those rafters,
  Deacon, as you have been good enough to insinuate."
</p>
<p>
  The Deacon, evidently taken aback, eyed the young fellow with a leer in which
  I saw something more serious than mere suspicion.
</p>
<p>
  "Was that all?" he began, but evidently thought better than to finish, whilst
  William, with a nonchalance that surprised me, blunderingly avoided his eye,
  and, bounding into the buggy beside me, started up the horse and drove slowly
  off.
</p>
<p>
  "Ta, ta, Deacon," he called back; "if you want to see fun, come up to our end
  of the lane; there's precious little here." And thus, with a laugh, terminated
  an interview which, all things considered, was the most exciting as well as
  the most humiliating I have ever taken part in.
</p>
<p>
  "William," I began, but stopped. The two pigeons whose departure I had watched
  a little while before were coming back, and, as I spoke, fluttered up to the
  window before mentioned, where they alighted and began picking up the crumbs
  which I had seen scattered for them. "See!" I suddenly exclaimed, pointing
  them out to William. "Was I mistaken when I thought I saw a hand drop crumbs
  from that window?"
</p>
<p>The answer was a very grave one for him.</p>
<p>
  "No," said he, "for I have seen more than a hand, through the loophole I made
  in the hay. I saw a man's leg stretched out as if he were lying on the floor
  with his head toward the window. It was but a glimpse I got, but the leg moved
  as I looked at it, and so I know that some one lies hid in that little nook up
  under the roof. Now it isn't any one belonging to the lane, for I know where
  every one of us is or ought to be at this blessed moment; and it isn't a
  detective, for I heard a sound like heavy sobbing as I crouched there. Then
  who is it? Silly Rufus, I say; and if that hay was all lifted, we would see
  sights that would make us ashamed of the apologies we uttered to the old sneak
  just now."
</p>
<p>
  "I want to get home," said I. "Drive fast! Your sisters ought to know this."
</p>
<p>
  "The girls?" he cried. "Yes, it will be a triumph over them. They never would
  believe I had an atom of judgment. But we'll show them, if William Knollys is
  altogether a fool."
</p>
<p>
  We were now near to Mr. Trohm's hospitable gateway. Coming from the
  excitements of my late interview, it was a relief to perceive the genial owner
  of this beautiful place wandering among his vines and testing the condition of
  his fruit by a careful touch here and there. As he heard our wheels he turned,
  and seeing who we were, threw up his hands in ill-restrained pleasure, and
  came buoyantly forward. There was nothing to do but to stop, so we stopped.
</p>
<p>
  "Why, William! Why, Miss Butterworth, what a pleasure!" Such was his amiable
  greeting. "I thought you were all busy at your end of the lane; but I see you
  have just come from town. Had an errand there, I suppose?"
</p>
<p>
  "Yes," William grumbled, eying the luscious pear Mr. Trohm held in his hand.
</p>
<p>The look drew a smile from that gentleman.</p>
<p>
  "Admiring the first fruits?" he observed. "Well, it is a handsome specimen,"
  he admitted, handing it to me with his own peculiar grace. "I beg you will
  take it, Miss Butterworth. You look tired; pardon me if I mention it." (He is
  the only person I know who detects any signs of suffering or fatigue on my
  part.)
</p>
<p>
  "I am worried by the mysteries of this lane," I ventured to remark. "I hate to
  see Mother Jane's garden uprooted."
</p>
<p>
  "Ah!" he acquiesced, with much evidence of good feeling, "it is a distressing
  thing to witness. I wish she might have been spared. William, there are other
  pears on the tree this came from. Tie up the horse, I pray, and gather a dozen
  or so of these for your sisters. They will never be in better condition for
  plucking than they are to-day."
</p>
<p>
  William, whose mouth and eyes were both watering for a taste of the fine fruit
  thus offered, moved with alacrity to obey this invitation, while I, more
  startled than pleased—or, rather, as much startled as pleased—by the prospect
  of a momentary <i>tête-à-tête</i> with our agreeable neighbor, sat uneasily
  eying the luscious fruit in my hand, and wishing I was ten years younger, that
  the blush I felt slowly stealing up my cheek might seem more appropriate to
  the occasion.
</p>
<p>
  But Mr. Trohm appeared not to share my wish. He was evidently so satisfied
  with me as I was, that he found it difficult to speak at first, and when he
  did—But tut! tut! you have no desire to hear any such confidences as these, I
  am sure. A middle-aged gentleman's expressions of admiration for a middle-aged
  lady may savor of romance to her, but hardly to the rest of the world, so I
  will pass this conversation by, with the single admission that it ended in a
  question to which I felt obliged to return a reluctant <i>No</i>.
</p>
<p>
  Mr. Trohm was just recovering from the disappointment of this, when William
  sauntered back with his hands and pockets full.
</p>
<p>
  "Ah!" that graceless scamp chuckled, with a suspicious look at our downcast
  faces, "been improving the opportunity, eh?"
</p>
<p>
  Mr. Trohm, who had fallen back against his old well-curb, surveyed his young
  neighbor for the first time with a look of anger. But it vanished almost as
  quickly as it appeared, and he contented himself with a low bow, in which I
  read real grief.
</p>
<p>
  This was too much for me, and I was about to open my lips with a kind phrase
  or two, when a flutter took place over our heads, and the two pigeons whose
  flight I had watched more than once during the last hour, flew down and
  settled upon Mr. Trohm's arm and shoulders.
</p>
<p>
  "Oh!" I exclaimed, with a sudden shrinking that I hardly understood myself.
  And though I covered up the exclamation with as brisk a good-by as my inward
  perturbation would allow, that sight and the involuntary ejaculation I had
  uttered, were all I saw or heard during our hasty drive homeward.
</p>
<hr style="width: 65%" />
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
