<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>I</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-1" epub:type="chapter">
			
<h2><a id="I" />I</h2>
<h3>A VISIT FROM MR. GRYCE</h3>
<p>
  Ever since my fortunate—or shall I say unfortunate?—connection with that
  famous case of murder in Gramercy Park, I have had it intimated to me by many
  of my friends—and by some who were not my friends—that no woman who had met
  with such success as myself in detective work would ever be satisfied with a
  single display of her powers, and that sooner or later I would find myself
  again at work upon some other case of striking peculiarities.
</p>
<p>
  As vanity has never been my foible, and as, moreover, I never have forsaken
  and never am likely to forsake the plain path marked out for my sex, at any
  other call than that of duty, I invariably responded to these insinuations by
  an affable but incredulous smile, striving to excuse the presumption of my
  friends by remembering their ignorance of my nature and the very excellent
  reasons I had for my one notable interference in the police affairs of New
  York City.
</p>
<p>
  Besides, though I appeared to be resting quietly, if not in entire
  contentment, on my laurels, I was not so utterly removed from the old
  atmosphere of crime and its detection as the world in general considered me to
  be. Mr. Gryce still visited me; not on business, of course, but as a friend,
  for whom I had some regard; and naturally our conversation was not always
  confined to the weather or even to city politics, provocative as the latter
  subject is of wholesome controversy.
</p>
<p>
  Not that he ever betrayed any of the secrets of his office—oh no; that would
  have been too much to expect—but he did sometimes mention the outward aspects
  of some celebrated case, and though I never ventured upon advice—I know too
  much for that, I hope—I found my wits more or less exercised by a conversation
  in which he gained much without acknowledging it, and I gave much without
  appearing conscious of the fact.
</p>
<p>
  I was therefore finding life pleasant and full of interest, when suddenly (I
  had no right to expect it, and I do not blame myself for not expecting it or
  for holding my head so high at the prognostications of my friends) an
  opportunity came for a direct exercise of my detective powers in a line
  seemingly so laid out for me by Providence that I felt I would be slighting
  the Powers above if I refused to enter upon it, though now I see that the line
  was laid out for me by Mr. Gryce, and that I was obeying anything but the call
  of duty in following it.
</p>
<p>
  But this is not explicit. One night Mr. Gryce came to my house looking older
  and more feeble than usual. He was engaged in a perplexing case, he said, and
  missed his early vigor and persistency. Would I like to hear about it? It was
  not in the line of his usual work, yet it had points—and well!—it would do him
  good to talk about it to a non-professional who was capable of sympathizing
  with its baffling and worrisome features and yet would never have to be told
  to hold her peace.
</p>
<p>
  I ought to have been on my guard. I ought to have known the old fox well
  enough to feel certain that when he went so manifestly out of his way to take
  me into his confidence he did it for a purpose. But Jove nods now and then—or
  so I have been assured on unimpeachable authority,—and if Jove has ever been
  caught napping, surely Amelia Butterworth may be pardoned a like
  inconsistency.
</p>
<p>
  "It is not a city crime," Mr. Gryce went on to explain, and here he was base
  enough to sigh. "At my time of life this is an important consideration. It is
  no longer a simple matter for me to pack up a valise and go off to some
  distant village, way up in the mountains perhaps, where comforts are few and
  secrecy an impossibility. Comforts have become indispensable to my threescore
  years and ten, and secrecy—well, if ever there was an affair where one needs
  to go softly, it is this one; as you will see if you will allow me to give you
  the facts of the case as known at Headquarters to-day."
</p>
<p>
  I bowed, trying not to show my surprise or my extreme satisfaction. Mr. Gryce
  assumed his most benignant aspect (always a dangerous one with him), and began
  his story.
</p>
<hr style="width: 65%" />
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
