<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXXV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-35" epub:type="chapter">
			
<h2><a id="XXXV" />XXXV</h2>
<h3>THE DOVE</h3>
<p>
  I remained at the gate. I had been bidden to show my interest in what was
  going on in Mother Jane's garden, and this was the way I did it. But my
  thoughts were not with the diggers. I knew, as well then as later, that they
  would find nothing worth the trouble they were taking; and, having made up my
  mind to this, I was free to follow the lead of my own thoughts.
</p>
<p>
  They were not happy ones; I was neither satisfied with myself nor with the
  prospect of the long day of cruel suspense that awaited us. When I undertook
  to come to X., it was with the latent expectation of making myself useful in
  ferreting out its mystery. And how had I succeeded? I had been the means
  through which one of its secrets had been discovered, but not
  <i>the</i> secret; and while Mr. Gryce was good enough, or wise enough, to
  show no diminution in his respect for me, I knew that I had sunk a peg in his
  estimation from the consciousness I had of having sunk two, if not three pegs,
  in my own.
</p>
<p>
  This was a galling thought to me. But it was not the only one which disturbed
  me. Happily or unhappily, I have as much heart as pride, and Lucetta's
  despair, and the desperate resolve to which it had led, had made an impression
  upon me which I could not shake off.
</p>
<p>
  Whether she knew the criminal or only suspected him; whether in the heat of
  her sudden anguish she had promised more or less than she could perform, the
  fact remained that we (by whom I mean first and above all, Mr. Gryce, the
  ablest detective on the New York force, and myself, who, if no detective, am
  at least a factor of more or less importance in an inquiry like this) were
  awaiting the action of a weak and suffering girl to discover what our own
  experience should be able to obtain for us unassisted.
</p>
<p>
  That Mr. Gryce felt that he was playing a great card in thus enlisting her
  despair in our service, did not comfort me. I am not fond of games in which
  real hearts take the place of painted ones; and, besides, I was not ready to
  acknowledge that my own capacity for ferreting out this mystery was quite
  exhausted, or that I ought to remain idle while Lucetta bent under a task so
  much beyond her strength. So deeply was I impressed by this latter
  consideration, that I found myself, even in the midst of my apparent interest
  in what was going on at Mother Jane's cottage, asking if I was bound to accept
  the defeat pronounced upon my efforts by Mr. Gryce, and if there was not yet
  time to retrieve myself and save Lucetta. One happy thought, or clever linking
  of cause to effect, might lead me yet to the clue which we had hitherto sought
  in vain. And then who would have more right to triumph than Amelia
  Butterworth, or who more reason to apologize than Ebenezar Gryce! But where
  was I to get my happy thought, and by what stroke of fortune could I
  reasonably hope to light upon a clue which had escaped the penetrating eye of
  my quondam colleague? Lucetta's gesture and Lucetta's exclamation, "He passed
  that way!" indicated that her suspicions pointed in the direction of Deacon
  Spear's cottage; so did William's wandering accusations: but this was little
  help to me, confined as I was to the Knollys demesnes, both by Mr. Gryce's
  command and by my own sense of propriety. No, I must light on something more
  tangible; something practical enough to justify me in my own eyes for any
  interference I might meditate. In short, I must start from a fact, and not
  from a suspicion. But what fact? Why, there was but one, and that was the
  finding of certain indisputable tokens of crime in Mother Jane's keeping. That
  was a clue, a clue, to be sure, which Mr. Gryce, while ostensibly following it
  in his present action, really felt to lead nowhere, but which I—Here my
  thoughts paused. I dare not promise myself too satisfactory results to my
  efforts, even while conscious of that vague elation which presages success,
  and which I could only overcome by resorting again to reasoning. This time I
  started with a question. Had Mother Jane committed these crimes herself? I did
  not think so; neither did Mr. Gryce, for all the persistence he showed in
  having the ground about her humble dwelling-place turned over. Then, how had
  the ring of Mr. Chittenden come to be in her possession, when, as all agreed,
  she never was known to wander more than forty rods away from home? If the
  crime by which this young gentleman had perished had taken place up the road,
  as Lucetta's denouncing finger plainly indicated, then this token of Mother
  Jane's complicity in it had been carried across the intervening space by other
  means than Mother Jane herself. In other words, it was brought to her by the
  perpetrator, or it was placed where she could lay hand on it; neither
  supposition implying guilt on her part, she being in all probability as
  innocent of wrong as she was of sense. At all events, such should be my theory
  for the nonce, old theories having exploded or become of little avail in the
  present aspect of things. To discover, then, the source of crime, I must
  discover the means by which this ring reached Mother Jane—an almost hopeless
  task, but not to be despaired of on that account: had I not wrung the truth in
  times gone by from that piece of obstinate stolidity the Van Burnam
  scrub-woman? and if I could do this, might I not hope to win an equal
  confidence from this half-demented creature, with a heart so passionate it
  beat to but one tune, her Lizzie? I meant at least to try, and, under the
  impulse of this resolve, I left my position at the gate and recrossed the road
  to Mother Jane, whose figure I could dimly discern on the farther side of her
  little house.
</p>
<p>
  Mr. Gryce barely looked up as I passed him, and the men not at all. They were
  deep in their work, and probably did not see me. Neither did Mother Jane at
  first. She had not yet wearied of the shining gold she held, though she had
  begun again upon that chanting of numbers the secret of which Mr. Gryce had
  discovered in his investigation of her house.
</p>
<p>
  I therefore found it hard to make her hear me when I attempted to speak. She
  had fixed upon the new number fifteen and seemed never to tire of repeating
  it. At last I took cue from her speech, and shouted out the word <i>ten</i>.
  It was the number of the vegetable in which Mr. Chittenden's ring had been
  hidden, and it made her start violently.
</p>
<p>
  "Ten! ten!" I reiterated, catching her eye. "He who brought it has carried it
  away; come into the house and look."
</p>
<p>
  It was a desperate attempt. I felt myself quake inwardly as I realized how
  near Mr. Gryce was standing, and what his anger would be if he surprised me at
  this move after he had cried "Halt!"
</p>
<p>
  But neither my own perturbation nor the thought of his possible anger could
  restrain the spirit of investigation which had returned to me with the above
  words; and when I saw that they had not fallen upon deaf ears, but that Mother
  Jane heard and in a measure understood them, I led the way into the hut and
  pointed to the string from which the one precious vegetable had been torn.
</p>
<p>
  She gave a spring toward it that was well-nigh maniacal in its fury, and for
  an instant I thought she was going to rend the air with one of her wild yells,
  when there came a swishing of wings at one of the open windows, and a dove
  flew in and nestled in her breast, diverting her attention so, that she
  dropped the empty husk of the onion she had just grasped and seized the bird
  in its stead. It was a violent clutch, so violent that the poor dove panted
  and struggled under it till its head flopped over and I looked to see it die
  in her hands.
</p>
<p>
  "Stop!" I cried, horrified at a sight I was so unprepared to expect from one
  who was supposed to cherish these birds most tenderly.
</p>
<p>
  But she heard me no more than she saw the gesture of indignant appeal I made
  her. All her attention, as well as all her fury, was fixed upon the dove, over
  whose neck and under whose wings she ran her trembling fingers with the
  desperation of one looking for something he failed to find.
</p>
<p>
  "Ten! ten!" it was now her turn to shout, as her eyes passed in angry menace
  from the bird to the empty husk that dangled over her head. "You brought it,
  did you, and you've taken it, have you? There, then! You'll never bring or
  carry any more!" And lifting up her hand, she flung the bird to the other side
  of the room, and would have turned upon me, in which contingency I would for
  once have met my match, if, in releasing the bird from her hands, she had not
  at the same time released the coin which she had hitherto managed to hold
  through all her passionate gestures.
</p>
<p>
  The sight of this piece of gold, which she had evidently forgotten for the
  moment, turned her thoughts back to the joys it promised her. Recapturing it
  once more, she sank again into her old ecstasy, upon which I proceeded to pick
  up the poor, senseless dove, and leave the hut with a devout feeling of
  gratitude for my undoubted escape.
</p>
<p>
  That I did this quietly and with the dove hidden under my little cape, no one
  who knows me well will doubt. I had brought something from the hut besides
  this victim of the old imbecile's fury, and I was no more willing that Mr.
  Gryce should see the one than detect the other. I had brought away a clue.
</p>
<p>
  "The birds of the air shall carry it." So the Scripture runs. This bird, this
  pigeon, who now lay panting out his life in my arms had brought her the ring
  which in Mr. Gryce's eyes had seemed to connect her with the disappearance of
  young Mr. Chittenden.
</p>
<hr style="width: 65%" />
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
